captdriver - Libre Driver for CAPT-based Canon Printers

Captdriver is a driver for Canon printers that only
accept the proprietary Canon Advanced Printing Technology
(CAPT) data stream format. This includes a significant
part of, but not the entire Canon laser printer lineup
with an LBP- model number. Some other Canon lasers from the
D- or imageRUNNER series are reported to use CAPT as
well^.

At time of writing, the only known way to use these
printers is to install proprietary drivers from Canon.

While support is reliable in Windows and macOS (with a
few minor annoyances), the Linux drivers are found to be
frustrating to install and use at best. This driver aims 
to initially provide reliable support on Linux systems 
through the the Common Unix Printer System (CUPS), with as
little additional dependencies as possible. Also, 
captdriver aims to eliminate questionable practices such as 
requiring users to install 32-bit libraries on 64-bit 
machines ;).

This driver is an onging work in progress, based on the
reverse-engineeering efforts of Rildo Pragana, Nicholas
Boichat, Alexey Galakhov and Benoit Bolsee. It is currently
in an early alpha stage and is unreliable. Use at your own risk.

An easy way of installing this driver is yet to be devised.
In the meantime, please take a look at the INSTALL.git and 
INSTALL files for instructions.

Details of the CAPT format, including printer control
protocols, status registers and compression algorithms are
documented in the SPECS file. While incomplete and expected to
contain errors and omissions, help with expanding it and making
corrections is greatly appreciated.

Message from Alexey Galakhov about installation:
'The file "rastertocapt" has to be installed into CUPS manually.
If you don't know how to do that, this driver is not for you. :)
Automatic installation will not be done until the driver reaches
beta stage to avoid misuse.'

^ IBM. IBM Information on Printers by Canon. IBM Support. 
Reference #N1019527. Updated 2017-03-28.
https://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=nas8N1019527
